Initial content for ZooKeeper documentation (#187)
canonical/zookeeper-operator: docs/content/how-to/deploy.md

# How to deploy Apache ZooKeeper charmed operator

```{note}
For Kubernetes cloud environment (e.g., AKS, EKS), see the Apache ZooKeeper K8s charmed operator documentation instead.
```
<!-- TODO add a link to the K8s charm. -->

Ensure you have a Juju environment set up and running, including:

* Juju cloud
* Juju controller
* Juju client

> For guidance on how to set up Juju environment, see [Juju tutorial](https://canonical-juju.readthedocs-hosted.com/en/latest/user/tutorial/) or a shorter [Give it a try](https://github.com/juju/juju?tab=readme-ov-file#give-it-a-try) section of the readme file.

Author: Our style guide doesn't have a preference. I'd say we can use either "readme file" as referencing the type of the file (we don't have to capitalise it) or "`README.md` file" referencing the exact filename (with a code block). I chose the less literal approach, but I don't have a strong preference here. Which one would you prefer?

> For guidance on how to set up Juju environment, see [Juju tutorial](https://canonical-juju.readthedocs-hosted.com/en/latest/user/tutorial/) or a shorter [Give it a try](https://github.com/juju/juju?tab=readme-ov-file#give-it-a-try) section of the readme file.

Reviewer: `README.md`, signals it's the file. Although it's very well known at this point, still a bit more clear.

## Set up a model

To deploy a charm you need to use a [Juju model](https://canonical-juju.readthedocs-hosted.com/en/latest/user/reference/model/).
Create a new or use an existing Juju model on a Juju controller.

### Create a new model

To add a new Juju model, run:

```
juju add-model <model>
```

### Use an existing model

To see all available models, run:

```
juju models
```

Then, select one of the models to use:

```
juju switch <model-name>
```

## Deploy the charm

Deploy the Apache ZooKeeper charmed operator:

```
juju deploy zookeeper -n <units>
```

> Where <units> is the number of units to deploy (we recommend the minimum of `5`).

Author: I absolutely agree with you about kicking tires. 
But I've heard many times how important it is that we have at least 5 units of ZooKeeper and so I want to set the expectation here right away, from the start. I'm trying to avoid teaching them the bad practices here (they'll probably figure out them by themselves).

If you still want to drop to 3, I can suggest the following variant:

```suggestion
Where <units> is the number of units to deploy (minimum: `3`, recommended: `5` or more).
```

> Where <units> is the number of units to deploy (we recommend the minimum of `5`).

Reviewer: I'm fine with your suggestion above.
Probably out-of-scope for a how-to, but it might be helpful somewhere to explain why we recommend 5. 

ZooKeeper itself is not HA without 3, as you need an odd number for quorum.
If you want to have ZK HA across multiple Availability Zones, you need 5 ZK units, 2 in AZ A, 2 in AZ B, and 1 in AZ C. That way if any AZ dies, you still have at least 3 'up-and-running' ZKs so you don't lose quorum.

But because AZ deployment on your cloud of choice is way above the scope of these docs, I think it might just be confusing as a recommendation without the context.

> Where <units> is the number of units to deploy (we recommend the minimum of `5`).

Author: Yes, I'd rather add a page called "High availability" in the Explanation section and make the `recommended` word a link to the page.

> Where <units> is the number of units to deploy (we recommend the minimum of `5`).

Author: After our discussion of the subject, I think, we both agreed that we feel neutral choosing between 3 and 5 as defaults here. But I came up with another smallish argument for 5, which can tip the balance in its favour. In the scaling section, we mention both add and remove unit commands, but we use only one. I previously chose to use `remove-unit` to provide an example of its usage, which is less trivial, than `add-unit`. Removing units from a 3-unit deployment is probably not a good idea, so I'd keep it at 5 for now =).
